docs: adds an upgrade guide for overlay 1.1 (#169)
OAI/Documentation: upgrading/overlay-v1.0-to-v1.1.md

---
layout: default
title: Overlay - Upgrading Between Versions 1.0 and 1.1
parent: Upgrading Between Versions
nav_order: 1
---

# Overlay - Upgrading Between Versions 1.0 and 1.1

> Overlay 1.1 introduces significant new functionality and improvements. This guide covers the changes required to migrate your Overlay 1.0 descriptions to version 1.1.

Author: What do you think of this suggestion:

```suggestion
Overlay 1.1 adds powerful new copy features, and upgrading from 1.0 is as simple as updating the version number. This guide walks you through that quick transition.
```

    description: Ensure the target schema is present
    update:
      Bar: {}
  - target: '$.components.schemas['Bar']'
    copy: '$.components.schemas['Foo']'
    description: Copy the Foo Schema to Bar
```

## Name the file according to the convention for better tooling integration

You might want to rename your overlay documents to end with `.overlay.yaml|json` to get better integration with tooling.

## Ensure your JSONPath are RFC 9535 for better interoperability

### Missing square brackets around property names

This example JSONPath query expression, which filters path items based on an OpenAPI extension property:

```jsonpath
$.paths.*.get[?(@.x-oai-traits[?(@ == 'paged')])]
```

Should in fact be:

```jsonpath
$.paths.*.get[?(@['x-oai-traits'][?(@ == 'paged')])]
```

Because square brackets are required for property selection.

### Use of the undefined `in` keyword

This example JSONPath query expression, which selects tags matching *Enterprise-Only*:

```jsonpath
$.paths..[?('Enterprise-Only' in @.tags)]
```

Should instead be:

```jsonpath
$.paths..[?(@.tags[?(@ == 'Enterprise-Only')])]
```

Since the `in` keyword is undefined in the RFC.

> ## Removing/Updating primitive values is now fully supported

Reviewer: When did we add this feature and do the tools support it?

Author: In this PR https://github.com/OAI/Overlay-Specification/pull/225
And yes clio supports it, [some others do](https://github.com/[ralfhandl/overlay-experiments](https://github.com/ralfhandl/overlay-experiments)
